Add CI pipeline (#2)
agera-edc/EDCDataDashboard: docs/continuous_deployment.md

## Continuous Deployment

### Overview

A GitHub Actions workflow performs continuous build and deployment of the EDC Data Dashboard docker image to an [Azure Container Registry](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/container-registry-intro). The workflow runs automatically on commits to the "main" branch and uses the git commit id as docker image tag. 

## Initializing an Azure environment for CD

### Planning your deployment

You will need to provide the following:

- An Azure Container Registry (use preexisting or see [instructions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/container-registry-get-started-azure-cli) how to set up)
- A service principal (instructions below)

### Create a service identity for GitHub Actions

[Create and configure an Azure AD application for GitHub Actions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github).

Follow the instructions to *Create an app registration*.

- In **Supported Account Types**, select **Accounts in this organizational directory only**.
- Don't enter anything for **Redirect URI (optional)**.

Take note of the Application (client) ID.

> Below, we create two credentials: one for federated authentication for GitHub Actions, and one with client secret for Terraform (required as Terraform does not yet support Azure CLI login with a service principal).

Reviewer: Do we create two credentials here as well ? Because later in doc we only describe about ARM and not APP.

Author: Ups, thanks for spotting this one

[Grant the application Owner permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal) on your Azure subscription.

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name         | Value                          |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `ARM_CLIENT_ID`     | The application (client) ID.   |
| `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` | The application client secret. |

### Configure CD settings

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name                   | Value                                                        |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ARM_TENANT_ID`               | The Azure AD tenant ID.                                      |
| `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`         | The Azure subscription ID to deploy resources in.            |
| `ACR_NAME`                    | The name of the Azure Container Registry to deploy. Use only lowercase letters and numbers. |

> ### Pushing ECD Data Dashboard image manually

Reviewer: nit: For what purpose we will be pushing this image manfully here ? As I see it always runs when we merge to main and takes what is latest.

Author: Yes, I initially thought this might be useful, but actually if you want to push it manually you can do that easily with an Azure CLI command. Updated accordingly.

> The `cd` Manually run the `cd` GitHub Actions workflow. The workflow runs automatically on commits to the "main" branch.

Reviewer: nit: not very clear after reading this. 
`The `cd` Manually run the `cd` GitHub Actions workflow`

[Grant the application Owner permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal) on your Azure subscription.

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name         | Value                          |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `ARM_CLIENT_ID`     | The application (client) ID.   |
| `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` | The application client secret. |

### Configure CD settings

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name                   | Value                                                        |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ARM_TENANT_ID`               | The Azure AD tenant ID.                                      |
| `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`         | The Azure subscription ID to deploy resources in.            |
| `ACR_NAME`                    | The name of the Azure Container Registry to deploy. Use only lowercase letters and numbers. |

### Pushing ECD Data Dashboard image manually

> You can push the EDC Data Dashboard docker image manually by running the following Azure CLI command on your local machine (adapting the name of the image according to your setup):

Reviewer 2: add link to https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/container-registry/container-registry-authentication for users to authenticate

```bash

> az acr build --registry <ACR_NAME> --image edc/edc-data-dashboard:$(git rev-parse HEAD) .

Reviewer 2: this works only in shell. Mention that, or better make it compatible with Powershell by separating the commands?
Wouldn't it be simpler to just put this in a manual workflow to avoid this issue?

Author: This project is a general purpose web interface for the connectors DataManagement API. IMO the consumers of this project are only interested in the resulting artefact, not in setting up CD nor forking the repo. I think anyone who is able to set up an MVD should be able to push the image to the ACR they just created?

Author: I can add instructions with the Powershell commands

Author: I understood what you meant by making it compatible with Powershell by separating commands now. I have done it this way 👍🏻

[Create and configure an Azure AD application for GitHub Actions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github).

Follow the instructions to *Create an app registration*.

- In **Supported Account Types**, select **Accounts in this organizational directory only**.
- Don't enter anything for **Redirect URI (optional)**.

Take note of the Application (client) ID.

Follow the instructions to [Configure a federated identity credential]([Configure a federated identity credential](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github?tabs=azure-portal#configure-a-federated-identity-credential)) for the `main` branch.

- For **Entity Type**, select **Branch**.
- For **GitHub branch name**, enter `main`.
- For **Name**, type any name.

Create a client secret by following the section "Create a new application secret" in the page on [Creating an Azure AD application to access resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret). Take note of the client secret and keep it safe.

> [Grant the application Owner permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal) on your Azure subscription.

Reviewer: nit: owner only? or something with less permission may also work here?

Author: Reduced to contributor at ACR level

Take note of the Application (client) ID.

Follow the instructions to [Configure a federated identity credential]([Configure a federated identity credential](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/develop/workload-identity-federation-create-trust-github?tabs=azure-portal#configure-a-federated-identity-credential)) for the `main` branch.

- For **Entity Type**, select **Branch**.
- For **GitHub branch name**, enter `main`.
- For **Name**, type any name.

Create a client secret by following the section "Create a new application secret" in the page on [Creating an Azure AD application to access resources](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/develop/howto-create-service-principal-portal#option-2-create-a-new-application-secret). Take note of the client secret and keep it safe.

[Grant the application Owner permissions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/role-based-access-control/role-assignments-portal) on your Azure subscription.

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name         | Value                          |
| ------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| `ARM_CLIENT_ID`     | The application (client) ID.   |

> | `ARM_CLIENT_SECRET` | The application client secret. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Configure CD settings

Configure the following GitHub secrets:

| Secret name                   | Value                                                        |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ARM_TENANT_ID`               | The Azure AD tenant ID.                                      |
| `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID`         | The Azure subscription ID to deploy resources in.            |

> | `ACR_NAME`                    | The name of the Azure Container Registry to deploy. Use only lowercase letters and numbers. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `ACR_NAME`                    | The name of the Azure Container Registry to use. Should be already deployed. |
```

### Pushing ECD Data Dashboard image manually

> You can push the EDC Data Dashboard docker image to an Azure Container Registry (ACR) of your choice manually.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can push the EDC Data Dashboard Docker image to an Azure Container Registry (ACR) of your choice manually.
```
